Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
I'm Tom Turbivill.
Some call it the forgotten war, but Norman Beale of rural Brass' County has not forgotten
a thing about his second battalion, Fifth Marine's assault on the Korean coast in 1950.
Nor has he forgotten the horror and the cold of that winter, scaling the cliffs at the
beaches at Inchan.
The card game that he lost that kept him in Korea to fight even longer, the Korean
war cost 54,000 American lives and another 8,000 were missing.
Norman Beale counts himself very lucky to have survived to tell his story of service.
Please welcome Norman Beale of Edge to Veterans of the Valley.
Mr. Beale, it's not her to have you on Veterans of the Valley and thank you first for your service.
You are a local kid all the way.
You grew up in Brian, you graduated from Allen Academy in 1948 and want to move right
along because you joined the Marine Corps soon after you graduated from high school in 1948.
So take us from there and your service in the Marine Corps and how that got you overseas
to Korea.
Well, I was overseas in other places also for a couple of years and came back to the states
and a few months later we had to turn around and go back.
But we didn't in the Marine Corps at that time in 1948 only had about 75,000 Marines.
Right.
So they had to scrape all over the world and get more Marines to develop a brigade.
One of my colleagues was calling for Marines early and all we could gather up was one brigade
and each battalion was missing one company.
And the company that we did have only had two cartoons.
Right.
So that was...
And the military had really changed because it was after World War II and the military
was kind of scaling down at that time.
Very much so.
You talked about how the military had changed during this time between World War II and before
the Korean War broke out.
Now after World War II all future wars were going to be push buttons.
And so the Air Force decided they didn't need too many Army personnel.
They didn't need the Marines but the Navy, they wanted to keep the Navy.
Right.
You had spent a long time on a boat.
I know you'd gone out to the Mariana Islands and the West Pacific for your training and
you came home, said you'd never get on a boat again but that was wrong because Korean war
broke out and you were headed to Korea.
I didn't want to get in on any more stinking shit.
You talk highly about the training that you got because you said that a lot of the
NCOs and the officers were World War II veterans who were certainly war experienced themselves.
So you did get some good training from these folks.
Yes and just the Marine Corps trains all the time.
Right.
I finally got back to the States and I got out of the Fleet Marine Force and was put
in a company that didn't go in the field.
So our new colonel decided we were getting soft and after I was there about three weeks
we were putting the field again.
Right.
I learned how to dig foxholes again.
And you would need that later on.
Obviously, second battalion, fifth Marines, this is one of the oldest outfits dating back
to World War I.
As a matter of fact, I looked up it was a German soldiers that actually gave them the nickname
the devil dogs because they were so tough fighting in World War I in 1918.
Bellowwood.
That's right.
So this was part of the outfit that you were in.
You left San Diego, August of 1950 and thought you were going to stop over in Japan but you
went straight to the coast of Korea to Busan.
Talk about that.
It wasn't much of South Korea left.
That's why we didn't stop.
Right.
And when we got to Busan, Korea, our general was down on the dock.
He wanted to know if Colonel Murray had gotten his message.
And Murray called out and said, no sir.
And he said, well, you get off the ship now and let's move on to the front.
Right.
And that was his message that we didn't get.
But fortunately, we spent that whole night unloading the ship and early the next morning we
moved forward.
So you didn't stick around long.
You were headed to the front.
Right.
And talk about that.
Talk about your first venture into combat heading towards North Korea.
What you recall about that.
Because you're still a young kid.
I mean, you're a young kid from the country and it's quite a change in your life, obviously.
We were down in South Korea and like I say, we were pushed into combat right away on August
the 7th.
We attacked.
And that was the same date that the offensive action in World War II.
August the 7th of the Gwata Canal, the first Marine vision, which the 5th Marines was
part of.
Right.
And after a couple of few days, we had pushed the North Koreans back 30 miles, 30 plus
miles.
Right.
And the very next day or two, we were called back down South.
They could not protect our sides.
And then we put what we call the fire brigade.
We moved from one spot to another, trying to hold the North Koreans back.
Right.
We had two major battles on the NACTON River.
The first NACTON, we pushed them back over the river and we all went down and rested
two days or three days.
And we were called back up because we had lost or the military had lost the NACTON front
again.
It was called the NACTON Bulls.
Right.
The 6th North Korean People's Army.
The first of his day they had come from Seoul, the capital all the way down to this little
area down in Busan.
We call it the Busan perimeter.
And they had not hit anything, but they found a new breed of cat down there.
Right.
And so.
Go ahead.
Then we were pulled off the NACTON and all of a sudden we went down to Seoul, Busan.
And we got on board ship and we thought maybe we could get to go back to Japan for our
and our duty.
Because you done such a good job.
Because we had done such a good job.
But I looked at one morning and there were ships and there were directions.
And then they come on the intercom and they told us that we had been selected to hit the
North Koreans right in the throat.
We were going to make an in-chon landing at Seoul.
Seoul was about 30 something miles from In-chon.
Right.
But when we got to In-chon, all of the Navy were bombarding in-chon for people.
And our planes were coming over and strafing and bombing and didn't see how anybody could
live.
But anyway, one of our battagons had to take a small island right out from In-chon.
It had a causeway going in to In-chon.
Right.
This was Womito Island.
Is that right?
Is that what you told me?
I believe that's what you told me the other day.
Womito.
There we go.
I was close.
It had a causeway actually from the island to the mainland.
Yes, to the mainland.
Right.
And the third battalion had to set up on that highway and keep from attacking on the way.
But the island was armed with North Koreans.
Yes, yes.
Right.
And we pretty well wiped them out.
Our third battalion pretty well wiped them all out.
Right.
And we were witnessing this.
Were you still on the boat or had you?
I was still on the boat.
You were still on the ship?
Yes.
Two.
We had two battalion still.
We had got our third battalion, finally.
Right.
And we were on board.
Now the reason we were on board in Korea, they had one of the highest water up 30, the
tide of 30 feet.
And then it would drop.
And after it dropped, there was just a huge mud flat out there.
And our ships were in the mud.
Right.
Still shooting.
So we had ladders that the Navy had fixed for us.
And we crawled up a seawall.
And when we got off the seawall, my own gunnery sergeant was walking up and down.
And as you know, a gunnery sergeant in the Marine Corps has used his words that I wouldn't
repeat right now.
That's why he's a gunnery sergeant.
That's right.
Get off the beach.
And we captured our in-chon pretty quick.
Excuse me.
I can get mixed up.
Right.
And as soon as we did do, we started for so.
Now you're all, I want the viewers to be able to picture this.
You're on foot.
Yes.
Right.
What kind of weaponry did you personally have?
I started out with the machine gun.
And been later on, I got the car being and I got rid of it as soon as I couldn't, got
an M1 rifle.
Right.
And the very good rifle.
Oh yeah.
I know.
So you're marching and you're battling?
Well, we're battling.
And because this is what the war was all about.
That's what we got.
We captured Kimpo Airfield, which was one of any tarmacs there other than few knockdown
yaks.
And we made another landing after we captured the air base.
We crossed the Han River in LCVP's landing craft.
We made it across and then we headed to Seoul.
My battalion did not go down our regiment, did not go down into the city of Seoul.
That was the first regiment with Chester Pillar and his group.
Right.
And Chester Pillar, he was the most decorated soldier of the Korean War.
He was most decorated Marine.
Marine, excuse me, yes.
Of the Korean War, of Wars, he was fought in the Banana Wars and all the way up.
That was a good outfit.
Right.
He was one who said, we've got the enemy in front of us and we've got him in back of us.
And we've got him on each side.
We've got him right where we won't, he can't get away now.
And he was about right.
I know that you're reluctant to talk specifically about, as you refer to, the blood and guts
of war.
And I understand that.
But what were your thoughts about what you were seeing?
Were you frightened?
Did your training kick in when it needed to?
What were your thoughts about life and death at that time that you recall?
Well, if you're in combat, you're afraid until you go into the attack or until the enemy
goes into an attack.
So then you get fairly calm.
We had some horrible battles down in the perimeter, Pusan perimeter.
Right.
But when we got on board ship, we went up, Tenchon, captured the capital.
So we went back down, got on board ship, surely it's our own arduous.
But we went all the way around the peninsula of Korea to the east side of North Korea.
Right.
The place called Wonson.
It was more of an administrative movement into the city of Wonson.
Right.
And then a day or two later we got on board train, flat cars starting to get in cold.
And we headed north.
One of the things that really had us worried, we went to a long, long tunnel.
And fortunately the North Koreans were not thinking about that tunnel.
We went on up to Haggaroo, North Korea.
And then we headed north, headed for the Chosin reservoir area.
And just before we got to the mountains, we had mountains on top of mountains.
We got on board a very small, small, cow track going up into North Korea, up into the
reservoir area.
Yes, sir.
When we got up there, I think I have heard, I don't know if anybody that had a thermometer.
But I heard that when we got to the top it was 13, over 13 degrees below zero.
And that was a physiological shock.
All that.
And thank goodness no one attacked that night.
Stayed there a few days and then the seventh regiment and the fifth regiment moved up
to Haggaroo, North Korea, which was right at the bottom of the big reservoir.
Our regiment went up the right side, or the east side, and the there too.
We had thanks even.
And it kind of warmed up.
But we were only there just three or four days.
And we started down because two regiment, our partial regiment, of the seventh Army division
came up to the right side and took our place.
They were pretty well slaughtered later.
I think our 800 got out.
Right.
Let's pause right there and let's look at some photographs of some of the things we're
talking about because you have mentioned how cold it became.
And we've got some photographs that depict 30 and 40 below.
Right.
And some pictures first off, this is you and your older brothers.
You're the baby of the family, you're on the left.
That's correct.
And these are your brothers.
Right.
Who were they from, say from right to left as we're looking at it?
Right to left, left, left, deal.
Yes sir.
My brother, right, he was next to me.
Oh next to you, okay.
And the oldest one was Jacob deal in the middle there.
And over and deal.
So orange is on the right as we're looking at the picture here.
Oh I'm sorry.
That's okay.
That's starting over here.
That's fine, I understand.
Okay.
I think the next picture we have is you as a young Marine.
There you are.
Was that when you just joined up?
And just got out of boot camp.
Just got out of boot camp.
You got me dress blues.
Good looking.
I found this photograph depicting the landing at Enchon and the type of ladders.
This probably looks somewhat familiar to you.
Very, very much so.
The guy right up at the top was a lieutenant.
And he was killed five or six yards later because when he was getting his men off the
boat and somebody threw a grenade in this guy, he did not fight down in the south.
This was his first combat.
And he covered that grenade saving the men on each side.
He got the medal of honor.
I wish I could remember his name, but I can't.
Okay, let's move on.
This is a photograph that certainly depicts the cold, the snow, the cold.
Just trying to get some sleep, trying to get some rest, right?
Actually we were on the road.
We were surrounding.
We were cut off up at a place called Yudamni.
And Hangeru was cut off on both sides by the North Koreans.
Or you have to buy the Chinese.
There's 120,000 Chinese that came in with strict orders to do away with the Marines.
Right.
Because they were killers, murderers, rapists, thieves.
So they tried.
We were able to severely knock out seven infrared visions of the Chinese.
And they had a few more that got out.
Right.
There's some more photographs.
You talked about this photograph, you're in the middle.
That's, yeah, I was at that Aircrew 30 machine gun right at first.
Right.
And two buddies there with me.
The one on the right was Texan.
Yes, sir.
And he's dead today.
And you're the one in the middle without the helmet.
Right.
This wasn't during the cold part, obviously.
No.
No short sleeves.
Very, very humid.
Right.
And get up to around 113.
And we didn't have enough water.
Right.
Okay.
This is another one of David Douglas Duncan's photographs.
And I believe these are not Marines here.
There's some Marines in the ditch there.
Yes, sir.
But he didn't like that photograph, but yeah, it was used on a stamp.
Right.
That's that picture.
Incredible photograph.
There you are.
As you were fixing to be able to come home.
Right.
You've grown yourself a little pretty good looking stash there.
I don't know how I got away with it.
Bring the court and put it up with that.
But you told the story about that if you wanted to go R and R to Japan, you had to get
that shaved off and you were the first to get your shaved off.
It came off immediately.
Yeah, I bet it did.
I was standing right next to one of my men on board shift.
And I was making comments.
He turned around and looked at me and he said, Bill, is that you?
Without the beard.
Move on to the next.
This is a...
Those are prisoners.
Yeah.
This is a newspaper that comes out, this was spring of 84 called the Chosen Few of this
sort of a publication that is about your unit.
You know what I'm going to add there.
Excuse me.
I'm going to talk to a torture today.
Yes, sir.
We got the word that you do not mistreat any, any misogyr.
We want them to come out with our hands up.
Yes, sir.
Not too many of them did, but some of them did.
Right.
Move on to...
Now tell me, this is you on the right.
Tell me about the person on the left and this is a person that you actually...
This is me.
So it's out of a foxhole, right?
Right.
Is this Mr. Dixon?
Yes, sir.
And he was...
He was my buddy after we met there.
I didn't know who he was.
Right.
He had both legs blown off and he came up to me and put his arm around in Hugmanek.
This was out of a reunion, right?
Right.
He...
And I don't know where the even new foot outfitties in because we had replacements coming
in all the time.
And you had drug him out of a foxhole and this is the first time that you all have seen
each other since then in 1950.
Right.
So quite a...
Since 1950, right.
He...
He was in that foxhole and there were others wounded and some killed in a martyr attack.
That day we had gone through a small, small village and I got the honor to be sent back to
that village to kick indoors to make sure everybody was out.
Right.
And I think about these guys over in Afghanistan and Iraq that have to kick in those doors
and the chills on up and down my back.
Indeed.
Want to move along because we're running short on time.
You had talked about fighting the Chinese because the North Koreans were pretty much punched
out about this time and fighting the Chinese.
And one thing that you credit really for saving your life during one battle is the World
War II Corsairs and how they provided cover for you in one of the battles in North Korea.
Well, the Marine Corps has an air ground team and on the ground we had flowers that were
farer to observers because they knew how to talk to them in up in these Corsairs.
These were World War II.
It's like everything we had was World War II equipment except later on we had one of
these bubbled helicopters that you see in mash.
Right.
Exactly.
They had put Marines on both wounded on both sides and take them back as fast as they
couldn't and come back.
Right.
You talked about going back, getting on shifts and how those ships had restuffed with
some of what you estimated about 100,000 North Koreans that you took.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
That you went to South Korea with you and that the first thing you did when you got back
on the ship was fighting lifeboat to sleep.
You were hungry but sleep was more important.
Right.
I crawled under a lifeboat.
I didn't even go around in that stinking ship.
We found out about this time that you were a corporal.
There was another corporal and only one corporal could go back home and it was you.
The other corporal was a young man with a fellow from Houston.
And they said decide between yourselves which one goes home and which one stays and how
did you do that?
We drew cards.
Somebody had some cards.
I don't know where they came from.
Right.
But I drew a six and a McMahon drew a six.
And so we had to draw again.
I drew a tin and he drew a jack and he got to go.
And you got to stay and you thought that was in to me.
I would not get out of there.
Right.
But I did about a month later.
I got out.
You got out about a month later.
And so in all your service in Korea was it about eight months, right?
That's right.
I mean, people, they were pulled out first because they had been in constant battle.
Right.
The Korean War was an intense war as you can see from the number of people killed.
Yeah.
You were talking, matter of fact, you brought some numbers there from the chosen reservoir,
the number of killed just from that.
Right.
It was approximately 15,000, 1000 of us up in the reservoir area.
Plus some army that went on the east side of the reservoir.
The 7th regiment and the 5th regiment were sent on up to a place called UDamn-E.
We call it UDamn-E, or didn't get out.
Because the pilots were flying over and they were taking beds.
There's no way that the first marine division was going to get out of that area.
Right.
Got some figures here.
Of course, I mentioned the coal wall ago and the coal would have got as you went out.
Yes, sir.
Approximately seven enemy divisions were wiped out or defeated severely by the first marine
division.
And let me see.
Historians have termed the chosen reservoir campaign, the most savage battle of modern warfare.
President Reagan, cited the chosen campaign, the epic military history.
And so...
No wonder you were such a proud group and a proud organization.
That's correct.
I wish we had time to talk more, but it was such a fantastic service and you are fortunate
to be here.
I got it.
To tell the story.
Yes, sir.
A lot of combat.
Thank you very much for your service.
Sure.
And thank you for your time.
Norman Biel and his wife Wanda live in the country with a couple of very friendly dogs.
Norman enjoys his life now that he has well earned by putting his life on the line for
eight months of battling the North Koreans and the Chinese in what they called a forgotten
war, Korea.
But not forgotten to him and certainly not to us.
We salute Norman Biel for his service as we do all veterans.
I'm Tom Turbiewil.
Please join us next time on Veterans of the Valley.